[Term Entry] Dart list method: .indexWhere() (#4396)
Codecademy/docs: content/dart/concepts/list/terms/indexWhere/indexWhere.md

---
Title: '.indexWhere()'
Description: 'The indexWhere() method is used to find the index of an element in a list.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'dart'
  - 'list'
  - 'methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-dart'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

In Dart, the **`.indexWhere()`** method is for find the index of the first element in a list that fulfill a given condition.

## Syntax

```pseudo

> int indexWhere(bool Function(S) demo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int indexWhere(bool func(S demo))
```

```

> - `int` is the return type of the method.
> - `indexWhere` name of the method.
> - `bool Function(S) demo` it's a function that takes an element of type S as input and returns a boolean value.
> - `S` is a generic type parameter and it represents the type of elements contained in the list. For example if you have a `List<String>`, `S` would be replaced with String.
> - `bool` specifies the return type. In this example it indicates that the function should return a boolean value. Function will return true if the condition is satisfied, false if the function is not fulfilled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `func`: A function that provides a condition for the `.indexWhere()` method to check.
- `S`: The type of element that is passed to the function.
- `demo`: The element that is passed to the function.
```

## Example

> In this example we will find index of the first negative number in a list of integers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the `.indexWhere()` method is used to find the index of the first negative integer in a list:
```

> ```cs
> void main() {
>   List<int> numbers = [8, 5, 2, -3, 6];
> 
>   int index = numbers.indexWhere((number) => number < 0);
>   if (index != -1) {
>     print('Index of the first negative number: $index');
>   } else {
>     print('No negative numbers found.');
>   }
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```dart
void main() {
  List<int> numbers = [8, 5, 2, -3, 6];

  int index = numbers.indexWhere((number) => number < 0);

  if (index != -1) {
    print('Index of the first negative integer: $index');
  } else {
    print('No negative integers found.');
  }
}
```
````

> The code returns the fallowing output:
> 
> ```shell
> "Index of the first negative number: 3"
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
The above example returns the following output:

```shell
Index of the first negative integer: 3
```
````
